---
layout: post
title: Ignite
date: 2018-07-05 00:29:00.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories:
- WITW
tags: []
meta:
  _wp_old_date: '2019-09-18'
  _publicize_job_id: '35389618135'
  timeline_notification: '1568747291'
author:
  login: jcbitshyd
  email: journal@hyderabad.bits-pilani.ac.in
  display_name: Journal Club, BPHC
  first_name: ''
  last_name: ''
permalink: "/2018/07/05/ignite/"
---
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Inspired by these words of Winston Churchill, the students at BITS<br />
Pilani Hyderabad Campus celebrated the seventh edition of Ignite, the<br />
annual social fest of Nirmaan, on the third and fourth of February 2018.<br />
 As the name suggests, Ignite kindles the lives of economically deprived<br />
 children. Ignite 2018 witnessed around 400 children spanning 11<br />
orphanages and several houses, with students of varying ages, from<br />
kindergarten to tenth standard. Accomodation and food were provided on<br />
campus itself. The children were housed in the hostel common rooms and<br />
fed at the mess along with the students.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>They also enjoyed a plethora of educational and recreational events<br />
like Vedic maths, English workshop, Science Fair, dance workshops were<br />
organised, to name a few events. To cater their sports interests,<br />
various workshops like Dodgeball, Khokho, Karate were conducted. Shades<br />
organised arts and craft workshop for them. Some of the fun events<br />
included Laser shows, 3D movies, puppet shows, and All India Quizzes, so<br />
 that they can learn while they have fun. Ignite was a huge success.<br />
Other than Ignite, Nirmaan also conducted “One Rupee Per Day” donation<br />
drive from 16th January onwards, to raise funds to help school children<br />
needing economic assistance and other good causes. The donation of one<br />
rupee a day for an year, or ₹365, could be voluntarily donated by<br />
students from the other advances of the mess accounts.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>“The kids are crazy and lovable. They brought up a singer and a  dancer in me. Everything was really fun. The best part about these  children is their attitude, they are satisfied with what they are given  instead of complaining for other stuff”, says Nikitha, a volunteer who  worked for the fest. Finally the kids bid an adieu with satisfied smiles  on their faces, and the volunteers discovered with satisfaction the  happiness and joy that can come only through giving.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><em>Article by Harsha Sinha &amp; Abhishek Roy</em></p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
