
Departments





DoSM


The Department of Sponsorship and Management or DoSM as we know it,
proved their mettle yet again by bringing in an incredible amount of
sponsorship for the fest. This year they managed to confirm the
smartphone giant Oppo and telecom behemoth Jio along with other players
in their fields. They’ve already leapfrogged the benchmark set by the
last year’s events and are looking to raise the bar for the upcoming
years. This year, like the preceding ones but with more emphasis,
sponsors were strategically chosen to smoothen the pitching process. As
for the team, it is touted to be one of the best teams ever, with
experienced and talented seniors eagerly heading a team of fervent
sophomores and freshmen to make ATMOS the best it can be.





Arts and Deco


The Department of Arts and Deco is working day and night in order to
beautify our already stunning campus in the colours of this year’s theme
 for the ATMOS: A Neon Dystopia. Their squad, comprising of motivated
freshers guided by experienced seniors are all set to make a mark on the
 fest with their unreal artefacts and creativity gracing every turn and
corner of the campus, making it one of the best ever decorations. This
year, the department also took an inspiring initiative and called out
for waste materials such as plastic bottles from the entire campus and
swore to put it all into use by using them for the decoration purposes.
Now that’s what you call “celebrating responsibly”.





DePP


The Department of Publicity and Public Relations continues to amaze
everyone with their professionalism and sheer brilliance this year as
ATMOS inches closer every day. According to the CoStaan of the
department, the PR database has improved compared to the preceding year
with nearly 350 people registering themselves as Campus Ambassadors for
their respective colleges, showcasing the reach of the fest. He credits
all of this to crafting of suitable strategies and executing them well
ahead of time to avoid any last moment hassles. The department also
managed to bring the fest under the spotlight by publicising it via
various print (e.g. Sakshi), virtual and social media platforms, not to
mention the college visits they’re doing to expand the local reach. This
 year’s team of DePP is doing a commendable job to ensure the grand
success of ATMOS.





DoPE


The Department of Professional Events, also known as DoPE on campus,
has some amazing pro-shows lined up for this ATMOS. From contacting the
artists till the signing of the contract, this department had a lot of
work etched out this ATMOS. All the members of the department seem to be
 working double time as they keep confirming great artists for the
events. With big names, such as Rahul Subramaniam and The Local Train
all set to perform in our campus, the footfall is expected to increase.
The newly created department has started their work on an amazing note
and has set the bar high for future fests.





DoTA


DoTA has definitely outdone itself this fest. They had been entrusted  with the huge responsibility of the ATMOS website and the posters for  the fest, and they delivered with work surpassing all expectations. With  the absolutely unique ATMOS website becoming one of the main points of  interest for the fest, credit needs to be given where it’s due; DoTA has  more than earned it with their achievements this time. The posters  released online are attracting a large audience, thus increasing the  outreach of ATMOS. Their job, this ATMOS, has been completed with flair  and time to spare.


Department of Visual Effects (DoVE)


The members of the Department of Visual Effects worked day and night
to shoot and edit the footage of every event that was happening all
around the campus during ATMOS. From the Competitions and talks to the
pro shows and the interviews of the speakers, they had it all covered.
Thanks to the workshops held before ATMOS the newcomers were well
prepared. They also got to learn new techniques of shooting and an
experience in editing. With all the amazing shots captured and the
technical prowess of their members, the aftermovie is expected to be
top-notch.





Department of Security and Hospitality (DoSH)


This ATMOS, DoSH efficiently managed the ever-increasing footfall
without faltering at any moment. Even though DoSH is a huge department,
everyone knew their jobs and completed all its duties with a skillful
task force comprising of experienced seniors and enthusiastic juniors.
The workload was distributed equally and all the members worked for the
smooth functioning of the fest. The new ideas which originated for
handling the large crowds were effectively communicated. DoSH did not
leave any stone unturned to increase the convenience of the participants
 as always.





Lights and Sound Department (LSD)


The Lights and Sound Department had a huge task of taking care of all
 the audio-visual requirements during ATMOS. With as many as 15 setups
running simultaneously during the fest, the work-force was not only
efficient but also proficient in coordinating with the other
departments. They ensured that every event gets their lights and sounds
requirements so that the events run smoothly. They worked tediously to
ensure that the lights and sound production of the pro-shows were up to
the mark. The DJ Nite conducted by them during the fest made ATMOS more
festive.





Department of Recreational Activities (DoRA)


DoRA, the Department of Recreational Activities, oversaw the
provision of leisure activities which acted as huge stress-busters and
rejuvenated the body in between the hectic schedule of ATMOS. Their main
 event, 'Man of Drones', was a wonderful learning experience for many
people who got to know how to control drones using gestures. Also, DoRA
made sure that the participants do not feel bored even for a minute with
 their 24/7 gaming area having LAN gaming and console gaming. All in
all, the department proved its mettle in its first Fest and are now
gearing up for many more fun-filled Fests.





Department of Photography (DoPy)


DoPy worked whole-heartedly during the fest, making it beautiful to
its core all along. It brought out the magic of the fest by
immortalizing the fun and fond memories of the participants in a frame.
Workshops were conducted for the juniors which helped them gear up for
the fest and contribute as much as possible . With their mastery in the
art of candid photography, DoPy once again won the hearts of everyone by
 encapsulating the euphoria of the fest.





Controlz


Controlz played an important role in making this ATMOS bigger and
better than ever before and maintained the smooth functioning of the
fest. From giving certificates to meeting the inventory needs of every
department, Controlz took care of all the logistic requirements of
ATMOS. Considering the convenience of participants at upmost importance,
 the department put up stalls and help desks all over the campus to
guide everyone.





Clubs





Shades


The shades club never fails to impress. The magnum opus is an artwork
 based on the theme of neon dystopia, which is going to be a huge
painting on a plywood that will be put up on display. The club is
working in collaboration with the fashion society and has taken up the
project of face painting. The club plans to upload its work of face
painting online for publicity of ATMOS. Look out for them as they
successfully manage to capture the beautiful parts of life on paper.





Music Club


The music club as always, is busy pouring their soul into practice
for the inaugural performance at ATMOS 2017. The club will produce a
rendition that will be etched in the memory of the viewers. It maintains
 that the performance is going to be a secret and no details will be
disclosed. Apart from this the club also intents to have an informal jam
 on one of the days.





Dance Club


The dance club plans to twirl with the theme with two breath-taking
performances this year, both highly integrated with the essence of Neon
Dystopia. The dance for the formal event will be classical styled. While
 the one for the informal event will showcase the dance form of hip hop
with some elements of freestyle in it. The dance club will surely blow
your mind away with their their raw talent on full display, and fiery
passion on the stage.





Drama Club


The Dramatics Club, high on life amongst other things, is working on a
 play which will unveil the reality of the corporate world and the
secrets held within the office doors. It is a thriller with elements of
comedy in it. Considering its previous productions, this play will be as
 scintillating as it will be entertaining, with a nail-biting ending.
This would be a performance you would not want to miss.

