<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Do you remember that ‘OPEN’ sign written in fire red capitals which<br />
flickered and zapped before finally turning on? Do you remember how it<br />
remained glowing for the rest of the night, playfully calling you in?<br />
When all else is asleep, the countless neon lights stand out cheekily<br />
against the dark, defying the night.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Neon is a big deal in our culture. By catching our eye at unearthly<br />
hours, it symbolises the desires we wouldn’t dare to show in the pious<br />
daylight. That is why there is no such thing as a ‘dayclub’. Neon lights<br />
 are our ambitions all dressed up to party.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Morris W Travers, one of the discoverers of the element Neon was so<br />
taken by the enchanting red glow, that he remarked, “the blaze of<br />
crimson light from the tube told its own story and was a sight to dwell<br />
upon and never forget." And we haven’t since.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Today, the ‘neon culture’ remains a strong element of our psyches. It<br />
 evokes the deepest and most intense emotions. Isn’t it curious to know<br />
how how intricate technological fabrications of chemical elements,<br />
electricity and heat are used to bring these powerful signs to life? It<br />
just shows how technology and science are never separated from emotions.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Technology is not a dispassionate entity that exists different from<br />
us. Instead, it is the tool that allows us to turn our inner world into<br />
physical, tangible objects that shake the outer world.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Which is why, A Neon Dystopia is the perfect theme for this year’s<br />
technical festival. What better way to bring out those terrifying ideas<br />
and stealthy plans than setting up technical innovation against the<br />
backdrop of the metaphorical neon lights? After all, anything goes when<br />
it’s dark.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading {"level":1} --></p>
<h1><a href="https://github.com/journal-club/wiki-data/blob/master/news/fests/atmos-17/themes.md#cyberpunk"></a></h1>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading {"level":1} --></p>
<h1>Cyberpunk</h1>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Cyberpunk started out as a science fiction genre with a cult<br />
following, describing an era of  “High technology, low life”. The theme<br />
for this Atmos focuses on the dark side of technology which is embodied<br />
by the members of this cult. That our society is moving towards this<br />
dystopia, makes the theme all the more relevant.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Although Cyberpunk began as a literary movement it soon seeped into<br />
all forms of art, movies and fashion generating an all-encompassing and<br />
ever-growing subculture. It is a complex and multi-layered philosophy,<br />
whose dynamics are ever changing as our perception of the future<br />
changes.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>This philosophy is best described by cyberpunk protagonists, those of<br />
 a subversive nature, the outsiders, anti-heroes, outcasts, criminals,<br />
visionaries, dissenters, misfits, people for whom ethics and social<br />
stigmas don’t come in the way of aspirations, who don’t care much for<br />
the system or the people who control it, those who are used to fighting<br />
for what they feel is right and especially against those who dominate or<br />
 try to hamper their creative abilities. People chasing avenues such as,<br />
 time travel, human cloning, designer babies, artificial intelligence.<br />
Hacking systems, breaking into restricted passages, and fighting for<br />
independence is what defines a cyberpunk revolution.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Cyberpunk is now. Many of the things that were predicted in cyberpunk<br />
 are happening today. Designer babies seem to be just a little way ahead<br />
 now, with stem cell treatments research getting approved, chimeric<br />
genetically engineered treatments possible, the lookout for a potential<br />
in-vitro womb in progress, Crispr (a molecular tool which has the<br />
potential to help manipulate DNA sequence). Improvements in prosthetics<br />
and brain computer interface have resulted in brain-controlled<br />
prosthetics, a mainstay of cyberpunk. Corporations increasingly dominate<br />
 global politics, and influence culture creating a situation ripe for<br />
subversion.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Something to look-out for is how we adapt to this whole tech storm<br />
which is approaching us. The question that is most important here is,<br />
where exactly do we draw the line. The debate is on.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
