---
layout: post
title: Techweek
date: 2018-03-05 20:16:00.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories:
- WITW
tags: []
meta:
  timeline_notification: '1568904473'
  _wp_old_date: '2019-09-19'
  _publicize_job_id: '35455220098'
  wordads_ufa: s:wpcom-ufa-v3-beta:1663801021
author:
  login: jcbitshyd
  email: journal@hyderabad.bits-pilani.ac.in
  display_name: Journal Club, BPHC
  first_name: ''
  last_name: ''
permalink: "/2018/03/05/techweek/"
---
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>The second edition of Tech-Week, the intra-college technical fest,<br />
which was between the 4th and 11th of February featured a host of talks,<br />
 events and workshops.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>The technical associations and clubs of campus organised talks by<br />
eminent personalities. For instance, Panacea had a “Panel Discussion on<br />
Entrepreneurship" by two of the very successful Pharmapreneurs: Mr.<br />
Rakesh Gupta (BITS Alumnus), CEO of Nature Velvet Lifecare and Mr. Anup<br />
Soans, Pharma L&amp;D Facilitator and Editor of MedicineMan – a popular<br />
pharma magazine. Spectrum, the Physics Association, organized a talk by<br />
Professor Kannan Ramaswamy on “Campus life for Academic Excellence”, on<br />
how students can make most of the resources available on campus.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Coming to events, TechWeek saw quizzing events like In-Quiz-Tive, the<br />
 Auto Quiz and Online Cryptics. Other events included “The Fault in Our<br />
Movies”, to spot the scientific inaccuracies in films and competitions<br />
like Plan B, Design Competition by MEA, N-Crypton, and Mathefia by<br />
Axiom.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Workshops, too, generated a lot of interest and participation in<br />
campus - from CruX’s DIY Workshop to troubleshoot basic computer<br />
problems, to the Competitive Coding Bootcamps, to a series of classes on<br />
 Neural Networks, TechWeek once again showed the considerable interest<br />
of learning and becoming technically knowledgeable.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>A lot of effort had gone into organizing the events in such a planned<br />
 way - the limited time slots available, however, caused clashes between<br />
 events, putting the general body into a dilemma on which event to go<br />
to, although some events were rescheduled to accommodate the time<br />
clashes with other events.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><em>Article by Poornima Venkatapuram &amp; Aditya Gayatri Sastry</em></p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
