<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>One of Hyderabad’s fabled 4 star restaurants, a gem tucked away from<br />
the hustles and bustles of the city, Atiroopa (one of the restaurants in<br />
 Aalankrita Resorts), is well deserving of its fame. It has a splendid<br />
ambience that soothes the eyes as soon as they feast on it and makes one<br />
 feel like royalty. The red cushioned chairs against the shining wooden<br />
tables, the spic and span floors, the light music in the background are<br />
all really captivating, only to be enhanced by the warm, soothing<br />
lights; A sight to behold indeed.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Being astounded by the ambience, we had high expectations from the<br />
fare they had to serve to do justice. We ordered the Cream of tomato<br />
soup which was served moderately hot, with a thick texture. The crisp<br />
croutons complemented the soup well, melting in one’s mouth after a dip<br />
in the soup. Atiroopa’s lavish Paneer tikka masala, presented<br />
beautifully with a dash of cream and coriander on top, really stood out.<br />
 We also made it a point to order the Nizam’s pride, the Hyderabadi<br />
biryani that looked, smelled and tasted perfect. We also relished the<br />
mouth-watering taste of murg tikka masala with soft butter naans to<br />
accompany it. Coming to the dessert, albeit limited choices in the menu,<br />
 we particularly liked the chocolate milkshake which was thick,<br />
delightfully less foamy and absolutely lip-smacking.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>The classy treatment and extremely well-mannered behaviour one  receives from the wait staff, however, does not entirely compensate for  the fact that the service was not very prompt. The restaurant kindly  obliged to get a majority of the dishes made Jain, upon request. There  is however, no denying that the exorbitant price of Rs.1400 per head  might not suit some. In all, the luxuriously designed Atiroopa is a  perfect place to dine for those who prefer a tranquil atmosphere in  combination with an elegant ambience to enjoy their food.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
