---
layout: post
title: DoPE
date: 2018-07-05 19:59:00.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories:
- WITW
tags: []
meta:
  _wp_old_date: '2019-09-19'
  _publicize_job_id: '35454756041'
  timeline_notification: '1568903461'
  wordads_ufa: s:wpcom-ufa-v3-beta:1663800985
author:
  login: jcbitshyd
  email: journal@hyderabad.bits-pilani.ac.in
  display_name: Journal Club, BPHC
  first_name: ''
  last_name: ''
permalink: "/2018/07/05/dope/"
---
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Another of the new additions to the campus, along with SaFL, the Wall<br />
 Street Club, and the Ultimate Frisbee Team. DoPE is one of the newest<br />
departments on campus, and is important because the department is in<br />
charge of pro-shows during fests, which can make or break a fest.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>DoPE was formed officially after ATMOS but worked during ATMOS<br />
too.Their inductions process consisted of two rounds, an interview round<br />
 along with a second round in which inductees had to come up with ideas<br />
for pro-shows for a fest. This helped in preparing them for the actual<br />
work lying ahead. This year, so far, DoPE had two sets of inductions for<br />
 the 2017 batch - one before ATMOS, and another series of inductions<br />
after ATMOS, which saw a lot of interest amongst freshers. The results,<br />
however, showed that inductions into DoPE were quite selective, as only<br />
ten students had been inducted in total from the 2017 batch, while more<br />
than a hundred interested students turned up for inductions.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>This ATMOS they were able to bring a leading Indian band, The Local<br />
Train, as well Rahul Subramanian, an upcoming comedian to our campus.<br />
For ARENA, the proshow was Candice Redding, which received a mixed<br />
response in campus. However recruiting artists for pro-shows forms only a<br />
 part of their work - it is their responsibility, also, to arrange for<br />
the travel, stay, hospitality and the special needs of the artists. Now<br />
that ATMOS and ARENA are done and dusted, their work for Pearl is cut<br />
out for them. They’ve been working at it since November aiming to make<br />
the fest a huge success. The rest of the campus, however, is still in<br />
the dark - who are the artists? Is the contribution we made from our<br />
mess accounts going to give us a better pro-show this year? The answer<br />
to these questions will have to wait, till we find out more!</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><em>Article by Shreyam Kumar &amp; Sandeep Jimmy</em></p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
