<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>With the start of the new year and the largest batch intake till<br />
date, the campus has been abuzz with various events, especially sports,<br />
to cater to the interests of the students present. The first few weeks<br />
were busy with players and enthusiasts giving inductions for the various<br />
 sports teams on campus. A football match was played against Mahindra<br />
Ecole Centrale here there was a tie initially, but BPHC eventually lost<br />
in the shootout 1-3. Basketball matches were played against Muffakam Jha<br />
 Eagles, against whom BPHC won 80-37. We also played with Mahindra Ecole<br />
 Centrale and the team won comfortably. In the SNIST Sports Fest, our<br />
basketball team reached the semi-finals but lost to VNR 28-38. There<br />
have been two inter-college cricket matches against Bhavan’s Vivekananda<br />
 College, of which we won the first match by 5 wickets but lost the<br />
second by 1 wicket.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Coming back to our own campus, there have been 2 intra-college<br />
cricket matches between the 2 teams, BPHC A and BPHC B led by Ishant<br />
Singh and Kritanshu Singh respectively. The first match was won by BPHC B<br />
 by 2 wickets and the second one by BPHC A by 25 runs. The sports<br />
culture on campus is going to be promoted greatly by ‘Blitzkreig’, an<br />
oncampus IPL-like event where players are auctioned off to the various<br />
‘buyers’/captains leading to various matches being played amongst<br />
themselves. The first auction was for the most loved sport of India:<br />
cricket; with the four team captains facing off to bid for the best<br />
players on campus. It was hosted by Gargic Mishra and Yashvardhan<br />
Shukla. Each captain was given an amount of 40 lakhs to use to build<br />
their own dream team.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>The auction was for cricket players and enthusiasts of every year.<br />
The bids went up to 15 lakhs with the highest one being 15.5 lakhs for<br />
star player Harsh Mundra, given by Kritanshu Singh. The captains readily<br />
 bid for several first years as well, with the highest bid for a first<br />
year going up to 6 lakhs.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>This edition of Blitzkrieg is no doubt going to be full of excitement and raw talent, with teams battling out for victory!</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
