
Independence Day On the morning of 15th August, BPHC woke up to a patriotic vibe on a  lovely midweek morning. The tricolour was unfurled by the director Dr.  G. Sundar followed by a marathon and some cultural events, including a  visit to the local school by NSS. Later in the day the Quiz club  conducted an Independence Day quiz. Some people reportedly woke up with  swollen eyes from last night’s GoT marathon, oblivious to the day’s  significance only to realise that breakfast has been missed, yet again.


Baithak freshers’ - An ill beginning.
Things didn’t go as expected in the North Indian dugout, where some
regard the degree of interactions to have exceeded the norm. This issue
has polarised the campus, and resulted in an intervention of the
authorities during the live event in a packed lecture theatre. Without
going into the specifics, the matter escalated and serious warnings were
 issued. The incident was followed by temporary cancellation of many
future events including postponing of Fervour.


Inductions
It’s that time of the year! The only thing other than Fervour that can
dream of drawing the freshmen owl away from the seductive world of
binge, inductions. ANC and TV marathons have become the creature’s
sustenance (Social life? Lol. So cute). Enthusiastic freshmen as always
flocked to get inducted into every Club and Department there is.There is
 no learning if you’re the best of the lot. With this philosophy at its
core, different clubs lookout for enthusiastic applicants with a zeal to
 excel at their craft.


Amul Music Jam
After weeks packed with an endless number of workshops, inductions
followed by more inductions (and some interactions), one does need a
breather to say the least. The Music Club had us covered with their
first event of the year, the Amul Jam.


AR/VR/MR Workshop:
A paid, certified workshop on Augmented reality, Virtual reality and
Mixed reality was conducted by Mr. Siddhartha Denamsetti. TBI helped
organise it, swearing to produce VR ninjas out of regular Bitsians. The
instructor is noted to be the first Indian to ever represent the country
 in the Game Development World Championship (GDWC).


Six-Sigma workshop
The economics association brought forth the popular lean Six-Sigma
programs to acquaint the students with topics encompassing volatility of
 the market, career growth options, an Executive’s (CEO etc.)
disposition, among others designed to give the students a competitive
edge during placements and in the work environment.


Fervour ’17
After an agonising delay of a month, and with its fate lingering in
uncertainty until D-Day, the official Freshers of 2017 kickstarted with
The Freshers’ Quiz. Some say only the ones whose minds have ascended the
 boundaries of this realm stood any chance on it. And it shouldn’t come
as a surprise when the very first question asks for “Your size”. Next
was the Salsa workshop conducted by the Dance Club. Freshers shook a leg
 to the biggest chartbusters of the year, taking respite from the
monotone of routine. Fervour concluded with the much anticipated Mr. and
 Ms. Freshers’ event followed by a Prom night.

