<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Automation and Robotics Club, or the ARC, is the go-to place for a<br />
robotics enthusiast. From line following to bomb squad, right from the<br />
basics to the advanced – ARC does everything you dreamt of doing with<br />
robots. Though the core team of ARC might be small with around<br />
thirty-five members, their events invoke huge participation in the<br />
campus. Their 2017 line follower workshop, on 23rd September, drew a<br />
participation in excess of <strong>74 teams</strong> (<strong>210+ people</strong>).<br />
 The next ARC workshop that has been planned is a Bomb Squad workshop,<br />
as a precursor to the ATMOS event. The ARC began as a small group of<br />
around nine tech-geeks in 2014 with no funding, no room to make stuff,<br />
and almost no materials at the beginning. They could get a temporary<br />
workspace in E123 with the help of Prof. YVD Rao of the Mechanical<br />
Engineering Department. They started making stuff, beginning with the<br />
Smart Inventory Management System (SIMS) to keep track of materials, and<br />
 drones.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Today, their work includes a Drawing Robot, a Scara Robotic Arm, and<br />
three 3D printers, of which the Flash Forge Inventor is the best. The<br />
Flash Forge Inventor was purchased after the current Secretary, Yohan<br />
MMR, <strong>got a research grant from the DST, Govt. of India</strong>.<br />
 The ARC also gets grants from the Director’s Discretionary Fund. The<br />
ARC also has a futuristic robotic arm that can imitate (or “shadow”) the<br />
 movement of our hand. The robot can play Tic-Tac-Toe with humans, and<br />
can even detect what we played. Another work in progress for the ARC is<br />
the chess bot, that was inspired by Wizards’ Chess of Harry Potter. The<br />
chess bot, which runs on an AI built by the members of this club, has<br />
strong magnets placed underneath the chess board, which can drag the<br />
metallic pieces along with them when the robot is making a move.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>ARC also participates in competitions like eYantra. In 2016, a four<br />
member team consisting of Sharath Golluri, Abhinav Kumar, Shivam Bhagat<br />
and Nikhilansh PV made it to the final stages of the eYantra, a<br />
prestigious annual robotics competition conducted by IIT Bombay.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Sharath Golluri, Technical Secretary of BPHC and Treasurer of the<br />
ARC, says that ARC for him is more than just building robots – “It’s<br />
also about developing your interpersonal skills”. Sharath is an<br />
excellent example to show that your field of study in BITS is not a<br />
barrier to you following your interests. Even though his branch maybe<br />
Civil Engineering, he is probably better known for his achievements in<br />
Robotics. Inductions to ARC are usually announced late-November or in<br />
the first weeks of December. Inductions are a two-round process, the<br />
first round being a robotics project. To get inducted, you will have to<br />
make a robot that does a basic task - like cleaning floors, following a<br />
line on the floor, responding to a clap or noise, or recognize<br />
handwriting. The robotics project, which will have to be done over the<br />
winter break, will qualify you for Round 2, which is a personal<br />
interview.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Ultimately, the ARC is the Mecca of BPHC for someone interested in robotics.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><em>Article by Rohit Dwivedula and Shreyam Kumar. Edited by Rohitt Vashishta.</em></p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
