# Is our batch the ghottest of them all or are they throwing cg this year?
## u/Roronoa-Zoro-466 (Score: 40) (Flair: Social Life: Goa)
CG list just dropped, the average cg is 7.23 for firsties, 7.43 for dullas. Is this normal for 1-1? Are they increasing leniency this year with their grading? Because if they are it doesnt feel like it 😔.  This isnt a cope post, im genuinely curious.


## Comments

### u/bcosynot0969 (Score: 25)
Bc I have to do Phoenix with this batch 😭😭


### u/brain_implant (Score: 6)
I'm a thirdie at Goa and I can confirm that grading was very lenient this sem in comparison to the last two years. The phoenix department especially seems to have tried to give out really good grades.


### u/ponzi1331 (Score: 11)
Wtf hyd will probably have a lower avg cg then


### u/interfaceTexture3i25 (Score: 6)
How did you get the cg list?


### u/The_Martian_1 (Score: 5)
being good at JEE like courses, and being ghot in general is different, wait for next sem sg


### u/decent_boy191 (Score: 4)
it's what it is. just study more


### u/[deleted] (Score: 8)
tbh it's a good thing for everyone, we aren't competitors, we all want that sab accha kare life me, and first step is acads, ofc.


### u/bcosynot0969 (Score: 4)
Holy fuck the average first sem cg for 22 batch was like 6.5 ish
I was super happy when I got 7.12


### u/sammysinsindia (Score: 2)
what's the median?


### u/Voldemort2212 (Score: 2)
How do you guys calculate average cg?
Atleast in pilani it is not mentioned anywhere


### u/vizwaroopam (Score: 1)
I mean this is still low, 7.4-7.5 was like the average 4 years back




