# Some Information regarding WES evaluation
## u/Discombobulated_Run6 (Score: 15) (Flair: Academics)
Wanted to make an info post about WES evaluation to help other MS/PhD aspirants. I recently got mine done last month. I was a dualite (double PS) who did my evaluation post graduation. Hope somebody can benefit from it.

* **Cost**: WES charges around 170 dollars (As of writing this post) for a course by course evaluation, along with additional charges (11-32 dollars per uni) to send your evaluation to the requested uni
* **Process for Evaluation:** I was from Goa Campus and Goa has the facility to send transcripts electronically, Im not sure how it works in the other campuses

1. Make a WES account and get a reference number
2. In the duplicate transcripts form on the AUGSD site, you can fill out WES details along with your reference number. The duplicate transcript costed me Rs 500. You can mail AUGSD if you wish to confirm.
3. Evaluation takes about a 15-30 days (longer if there's a holiday season) and universities may take more time to acknowledge they've received the result.

* **Process of Evaluation:** These are certain observations I made from my evaluation.

1. A- , B- and C- are converted to A, B and C respectively. D is converted to C. (idk about E).
2. A, B and C remain as A, B and C.  For calculating WES GPA A=4, B=3, C=2.
3. Many courses will have their weightage reduced for calculating your final gpa.  
\-&gt; 2 credit courses are converted to 1 credit  
\-&gt; 4 and 5 credit courses are converted to 3 credits.  
\-&gt; 20 credit courses are converted to 6 credits. (Unfortunately I dont know how 16 credit thesis is converted but I'm assuming it'll be 5 or 6 credits)
4. 1 and 3 credit courses will have the same weightage."Good" in EVS was converted to a "B" for me."CLR" was converted to "Pass".

An example of how evaluation was done

|Course|Credits (BITS)|Grade (BITS)|Credits (WES)|Grade (WES)|
|:-|:-|:-|:-|:-|
|Electrical Machines|4|C-|3|C|
|EG|2|C|1|C|
|PS 1|5|A|3|A|
|CALCI|3|A-|3|A|
|PS 2|20|A|6|A|

WES GPA = \[(3\*2) + (1\*2) + (3\*4) + (3\*4) + (6\*4)\] / 16= 56/16 = 3.5 (on a scale of 4)

Note: This is only for the BITS method of grading and may not hold true for other colleges

My approx 7.5/10 got converted to a 2.7/4 which is pretty bad on a US scale and also very different from other GPA calculators like Scholaro or UCI's calculator (Scholaro gave me a 3.1-3.2). Ofc if you have a higher GPA you will probably get a better WES GPA as well.I'd still recommend most BITS applicants to just enter their GPA out of 10 and not go for WES evaluation unless a majority of your shortlisted unis require it. The one time cost of evaluation is pretty high too and you'll already be spending quite a lot on application fee and sending your test scores.


## Comments

### u/TzarDeRus (Score: 3)
&gt; 2.7 

gosh imagine spending that much time and money on WES and getting such a shitty, poor quality, misrepresentative evaluation — my condolences, and thank you for the forewarning


### u/No_Guarantee9023 (Score: 2)
I'm quite surprised. I thought people opted for WES to increase their CG. I guess it doesn't work for everyone.




