# [AMA] Hardware Roles &amp; MS in US
## u/jiiggi_djay (Score: 52) (Flair: Misc)
About Me: 

&gt; I graduated in 2019 with EEE degree, Pilani Campus 

&gt; Worked in India for 3 years in Hardware role

&gt; Recently completed my Masters and interned at FAANG. 

Will be happy share about hardware roles in the industry and target them.

Also, I welcome questions related to Masters abroad, expectations, timelines and experience. 

Just nothing on cut-offs, I gave exam way back in 2015.


## Comments

### u/ConsequenceHuge7297 (Score: 10)
If you had to do it all again, would you do the Masters right after your UG?


### u/kaperpercy (Score: 8)
What was your salary progression throughout those 3 years? (in comparison to IT). How is the work life balance in hardware in India? Why did you feel the need to pursue a Masters? (Wanted to settle in US/Growth/Interest/)


### u/Far_Tonyu (Score: 7)
What advice would you give to a fresher ? Anything along the lines of career advice,general advice,college specific advice,etc.


### u/ifuckupthings (Score: 8)
What do you think was the difference between the way you prepared and the way someone who couldn't get placed for a hardware role?( Assuming you both had same CG/knowledge)
When did you finally make up your mind that you were going for ET?


### u/BromateIon13 (Score: 3)
Advice for eee freshers? I have no interest in IT/finance. What should I do to get into decent enough core job /masters in eee?


### u/Excelsio_Sempra (Score: 3)
I don't expect a positive answer to this, but just asking because I want to know if it's a good idea to keep thinking about it: I want to do embedded system development, but my CGPA is so low that I'll never be even considered for any hardware companies without extremely relevant workex. I'm willing to put in the time after (or even during) graduation to learn everything I should've learned during my degree, but I'm just concerned no one will give me a chance at even an interview. So, is it possible to get, at the very least, an interview attempt to prove you deserve a job in hardware, even if you don't have the grades for it, but you can prove you have the skills with projects? Because I'm a bit skeptical of offcampus placements in hardware.


### u/kazuya57 (Score: 3)
What was your CG and what type of resume did you have at the time of your application?


### u/Little-Egg-1163 (Score: 3)
I wanna apply for master's, want to get a paper out
Have a sop in the eee dept, have decent cg, how do I get a paper out?
Also, any help with cold mailing ? I wanna try mailing profs in other instis too for more research/paper opportunities

(So far I have worked mostly in ML, still in 2-2 so can't make up my mind about electronics)


### u/Boi_Wunder (Score: 3)
In the current climate, do you think doing Masters is necessary to sustain a career?



Would you advise getting a placement and doing a job for sometime before pursuing Masters (especially if the money for funding the Masters isn't outright available without a loan) or do you think it's better to go for Masters straight after BE?


### u/sub_micron (Score: 2)
I'm currently working in one of the biggest names in semiconductor, with a decent salary in India. Is it worth it to pursue MS in US, considering my long term goal is to settle in India? How is the job market currently? Is it difficult to find jobs while trying to switch domains (verif to arch/design)?

This one is a bit more financial oriented. 
How much are you able to save in a month? (Before and after paying back loan)


### u/Smart_Ad482 (Score: 2)
What do you feel is the current trend for the IT Industry that you have seen in the US. Has it reached its saturation point? I definitely feel core electronics will boom more.


### u/PlanktonSpecific371 (Score: 2)
I'm a first year in Goa campus, EEE. Please tell me what are the other things I should pursue to get a job into core electronics. I know CG is the most important criteria, but what other things make my profile stand out from the rest.


### u/Noob227 (Score: 2)
How are your CS friends faring. Do they have intern/ft offers


### u/itskaranfam (Score: 2)
What did you do your masters in? And what is your role right now?


### u/Obvious_Location394 (Score: 1)
I’m interested in pursuing ECE as my dual degree. Will you recommend opting for core electronics over CS/IT as a career option?


### u/[deleted] (Score: 0)
[deleted]


### u/VDFirePhoenix (Score: 1)
which college did you do your masters?


### u/Beautiful_Trifle_929 (Score: 1)
I am a 3rd year eco ece dualite can you tell how much cg is required for these core companies? Which courses do I need to do? How to build a resume for core electronics? How to choose a career between finance and electronics as currently I am confused between them (not interested in IT)? How many core companies give PPO in PS 2?


### u/Icy-Lettuce-270 (Score: 1)
Bro what's a good cg if I wanna pursue MS?
And what kind of hardware do you work on?
I have interest in microcontrollers, embedded systems, and just electronics engineering in general.
My roadmap is this
4 yr btech
Immediately after,
2 year MS in the US
What can I do in my clg to make this path as optimal and fruitful as possible? Ik good cg helps but what should I do?


### u/nuubda (Score: 1)
Without masters entering in core(mechanical related) in india is actually wrong, doing masters from abroad helps in job in india Or we need to settle abroad only??


### u/MotherOfAllOmelette (Score: 1)
What were your DEL choices if you were aiming for MS CS? Did you opt for CNI minor?




