# Queries regarding NC grade
## u/Acrobatic-Ad-8432 (Score: 4) (Flair: Academics)
Hi guys, may I please know how receiving NC grades, for missing the comprehensive exam, are counted towards your cgpa in bits pilani? More so, when repeating the course again, does the NC grade remain on the transcript? what are its impacts on cgpa and transcript? Feel free to add any noteworthy details concerning this issue. Please kindly share you knowledge on this. Thanks in advance. 


## Comments

### u/Aware_Ad3669 (Score: 3)
Getting an NC has no impact on cg outright, it just reduces the number of credits. An NC essentially deletes the course from any cg calculations, so for example if there's 20 credits in a sem and you get an NC in a 3 credit course, the denominator in your cg calculation changes to 17 (can be better or worse than an E depending on the semester, existing cg, etc but an E is almost always worse). For dual students however, they count the NC as an E grade (2 credit points) in the first year such that the denominator for all students remains the same for allotting duals. (basically if you get an NC in the first year as a dualite you're screwed). 

When you repeat the NC course, the new grade will have a star alongside it on your transcript that showcases the fact that you needed a second attempt to obtain the grade. 

Of course, in case you have a course or are choosing an elective for which a prerequisite is required in which you have an NC, you would have to repeat the prerec course before you are allowed to register for the original course. (the original and repeated course cannot be done in the same semester, you must repeat the prerec first then go for the original course later.)

This is all for Pilani campus btw, for other campuses it might be different




