# WILP course is not designed for professionals
## u/benkiyalliAralu (Score: 20) (Flair: Academics)
I joined WILP course on Artificial Intelligence with goal of learning something new. It also required for my career. Paid 85k for first semester.
Unfortunately it’s not designed for professionals.
1. They delayed start of semister to accommodate more students. Our course has nearly 1000 students
2. All most all classes are muted and one sided
3. Maths lead professor and his team is not interested in teaching. He asked us to write assignments during Holiday season and gave some arbitrary deadline  like 7PM. He could have easily gave us 2 weeks. 
4. Age old way of doing assignments and asking us to write code in paper instead of writing code
5. finding it very difficult to follow the course with all these special classes, webinars 
6. If we fail in any subject need to pay entire sem fees again. 
7. Teaching quality is below far. they are just reading slides and rushing to complete syllabus 
8. Initially they said online exams allowed. Now only offline exams allowed
9. Overall poor experience 

I know if I attend every evaluations I might clear. But because of poor design of course and lack of support it feels like rat race and continuously trying to satisfy ego of staff. No learning 

I have decided to drop out of course.


## Comments

### u/Total_Method_6004 (Score: 15)
All online degrees are a bloody scam, and it never adds any value to your resume unless you are actually pursuing an offline bachelors/masters degreee


### u/Global-Cucumber6481 (Score: 1)
Everything is ok except for maybe the one sided teaching part




