# MSC programmes without dual degrees
## u/tis_a_mayhem (Score: 2) (Flair: Academics)
When someone has chosen a [M.Sc](https://M.Sc) programme, is it compulsory to opt for a dual degree or can we complete 4 years with just [M.Sc](https://M.Sc). Because every time I see someone opting for a M,Sc programme, its because of dual degree

Also, what is the scope of just an M.Sc ? (Without dual degree) Is it equivalent to an actual masters programme or is it less valuable?


## Comments

### u/XeroByXero (Score: 14)
You can just take a MSc degree, but do you really want to pay 25-30L for it?  
You can complete BSc Msc in less than 1-2L in DU or any other good place.


### u/PalmSprings1984 (Score: 4)
Yes, a handful of people do this. They are usually more inclined towards research so they rarely go for jobs after college. However someone from MSc Eco or Math might be able to get a decent job related to their field/interest after college.


### u/Gullible-Regret8636 (Score: 1)
Hey, so MSc can be taken without opting for dual degree.
What exactly happens is that when you join the msc programme, after your 1st year they ask you whether you want to take up a BE (engg) degree.
If you refuse, you'll continue with your msc degree only. 
I'd suggest if you really wanna go down this route, better explore the 1st year whether you really wanna do a single degree or go the conventional method of dual degree. 

Also, msc economics as a single degree makes the most sense. You could also take up a minor in data science and go for finance and quant roles.
Other msc degrees don't open up many opportunities, especially if they're done from BITS. Msc eco is the only exception according to me. It opens up finance placements for you.

If you really want to do msc in some other branch other than eco and go into research, I'd suggest you to rather look for other colleges that provide bsc+msc. Again, only msc eco as a single degree makes sense through BITS.


### u/No_Guarantee9023 (Score: 1)
Based on your comments, you have these options:
- Take a BE + minor in Physics. Do Physics research. Apply for PhD.
- Take MSc Phy. Choose either CS, EE or ME as your BE. Do Phy research. Apply for PhD.
- Take MSc Phy. Don't choose a BE. Do Phy research. Apply for PhD directly. (This would be my least recommended option)
- Choose an institute focused on research, like IITs (if they have physics), IISER, IISc.




