# Would it be wrong to think that MnC would be redundant in a few years?
## u/Proud-Rabbit8297 (Score: 7) (Flair: Future BITSian)
Title

I was really interested in MnC, especially after the saturation and layoffs in tech in 2022/2023. But with the advent of AI, won't data analysis be done by a machine, hence removing the need of humans in that post? Just guide me as a lost soul here.

Thanks in advance

Edit : I stand corrected. Thank you for your responses.


## Comments

### u/pranavpande01 (Score: 42)
Bro heard about a job domain, and made the entire degree about it. Avg fresher.


### u/Spirited-Muscle188 (Score: 12)
&gt;But with the advent of AI, won't data analysis be done by a machine, hence removing the need of humans in that post?

Bruh then by that logic, aren't all engineering fields kinda heading towards redundancy? Things like AI taking over jobs aren't so black-and-white and it's often not that case that there will be one day suddenly when all human are redundant.

&gt;layoffs in tech in 2022/2023

The reason for layoffs isn't because AI is taking over the world, it's the correction after the over-hiring by big tech in the 2021-22 period, and the cost-cutting which is necessary in this economic condition.

I'm not aware if the course structure is revealed, but it's highly possible that its introduction is because of the incoming quant hiring craze.


### u/normal_dude_69 (Score: 3)
applied math can never be useless


### u/SgtKaushik (Score: 7)
focus on entrance kid you're mumbling random bullshit here


### u/NyxDragonSAO (Score: 2)
Honestly any company that is willing to _completely_ rid of its MnC department due to revolutions in AI is dumb. That's a legal case waiting to happen, cause if there are no fact checkers, you will someday get an output that could get you sued. Now you could say they will trim the department down, but imo you will see people go into more "Bureaucrats" Type of role or pencil pushing roles putting it mildly. So fear not, AI won't make you loose your job, it will just suck the entire passion out of it and make your job more mingling with your co workers that it already is. All the best for your future, may you live in interesting times


### u/Haunting-Criticism76 (Score: 3)
Juniors crying because they think MnC will be redundant 

Meanwhile me:- looks at these comments and thinks about how beautiful journey maths department will take them in the comming years


### u/Civil-p (Score: 1)
if one wants to enter development field would it be considerably easier from mnc than from ece? and what is the scope of mnc compare to ece if some senior doesnt mind explaining .




