# Interviews for PS-2 stations
## u/Curious-Web6454 (Score: 11) (Flair: Academics)
Is it true that some companies (concerned only about  IT role) take interviews in PS-2 as well. I have heard apple and mercedes take interviews for PS-2.Are those for SDE roles?
Is there any company except them which also take interviews. 

My CG is 6.91 (EEE) i don't think i can get any good PS station with this CG. I have decent coding skills but not confident enough to go for 4-1 placements(also cg not enough for 4-1). 
Is there actually a good chance of getting good PS-2 station by an interview. Or are the chances very less even if you are good in coding as the spots with interviews may be less. Also what are the CG cuttoffs for those interviews?


## Comments

### u/AAK_Music (Score: 9)
Apple doesn't regularly come for SDE roles (I think the previous year it was for supply chain). JPMC also takes interviews, and some others also. Not sure about CG cutoffs.


### u/[deleted] (Score: 0)
At 6.91 you might be borderlined to miss Amazon, I don't know if your luck works in favor but last sem (4-1) they did take some from cse around this gpa.
Also, don't worry at this gpa you won't be facing much interviews, those land in the region of about 7.4 or above.(that too very rare)
Apple supply chain came for 4-1 and Sde for 4-2(usually for 8.5+ cs people)
If you are from goa campus , I heard that 1-2 guys got Standard Chartered SDE role(via interviews) from EEE branch with a gpa around 6.7  from goa in 4-1.


### u/XeroByXero (Score: 1)
I would say don't think about these companies. After normal allotments which are done on the basis of CG, these companies take extra interview of those allotted. Not anyone can apply for them. At 6.9 I don't think you'll be able to get Apple.


### u/avg_corpslave (Score: 1)
There were multiple companies that took interviews this time including Apple, DeShaw, JPMC, Amazon. Spots were less, cg was also taken into consideration for most of them.




