# Whenever I notice someone has left their electronics on the table at the library, I pocket it and take it home so that it does not get stolen. What acts of kindness do you do for strangers on campus?
## u/a_redditor_is_you (Score: 97) (Flair: Misc)
These days I also make sure to answer my phone calls on speaker with the phone held out in front of me so people around me don’t have to hear an annoying one-sided conversation.    


## Comments

### u/ogbitsian (Score: 31)
Messages of Joy 🥺


### u/ThinPattern (Score: 17)
Well, I once saw this kind stranger helping others with their electronic gadgets. He offered to help me carry mine, too, but never gave it back to me 😞


### u/Vivienne_Yui (Score: 2)
That's great of you, OP! Lol wish ppl did the phone thing more if they're gonna be on long calls..  You can also give the gadgets at the front desk and put up a picture on the group (if there's several other ppl around who might misinterpret it😅)


### u/Pkboi0017 (Score: 2)
Idk how to write this in bad good way, those who cut the line in mess are very disgusting


### u/bcosynot0969 (Score: 3)
At FK (goa campus) I take the food kept on the counter even if it isn't mine
So that it doesn't get wasted 🙂


### u/decent_boy191 (Score: 4)
I'm not so kind😞


### u/shpongletron00 (Score: -18)
 

&gt;I pocket it and take it home so that it does not get stolen

Only until the actual owner catches you in the act and assume otherwise. In a moment your act of kindness can turn into an act of theft. Be aware about that.




