# Who sold my data to this third-rate dating app?
## u/Commercial_Key_5011 (Score: 182) (Flair: Misc)



## Comments

### u/hErd7 (Score: 65)
I installed the app to check and found that they need contact permissions to start the app

So any friends of yours gave the permission and from there the message is delivered to you

Really cheap tactics...


### u/Due_Extreme_2448 (Score: 53)
Bro pata nhi but 


LMAO


### u/realPerseus40 (Score: 13)
It was me


### u/abhi5777fg (Score: 10)
Bro its a marketing statergy no one said anything about you in reality


### u/Reply_Account_ (Score: 26)
Kya hi bolu. Ye mereko shayad se 50 se 100 message kiya hai last 1 year me.


### u/asterisks_ (Score: 8)
Friend: exists 

Slick: Your friend confessed something about you


### u/L0wkeyy04 (Score: 7)
Slick has access to every users contact list(maybe your friend have downloaded it)


### u/Clear-Drummer-9153 (Score: 2)
Me


### u/L4ndasur (Score: 2)
Is this legal?


### u/54thvik (Score: -33)
Bro if ur dumass doesn't use VPN or tracker blockers no one needs to sell u data it will be stolen from u


### u/quantitativeaptitude (Score: 1)
It happens to all college students


### u/TheIndomitable539191 (Score: 1)
Bhai almost sbke colleges me ho rha hai


### u/rouge_07 (Score: 1)
Same happened to me..... probably after registration at placement portal or by registering for an internship.....


### u/ish15_06 (Score: 1)
Have you ever signed up for any free college fest passes?
It is possible to get these kinds of messages if that is the case.


### u/GlowwRocks (Score: 1)
Did anyone ever make an account n checked what all these friends are confessing ? 😂

After getting such msgs, I thought to try it out but they NEED ur phone no. Even to like open it, toh bs mann nhi hua use krne ka 

(Illusion of control on) privacy zindabad!


### u/kbajori50 (Score: 1)
 Itna chutiya app aur itne cheap tactics


### u/Direct_Tree4315 (Score: 1)
Hi


### u/opname08 (Score: 2)
Your some friend has given contact permission to Slick app

They use this contact information and contact everyone with the Phone number with same message

Few months ago even i used to get that message now I dont.
But this is just data things imagine you didn't even create your account and still your mobile number is getting sold to other third party companies lol




