# [AMA] Third Year CS Student, Hyderabad Campus
## u/IcecreamMan_1006 (Score: 20) (Flair: Misc)
Almost at the end of my College life here at campus, I mean obviously 4-1 and 4-2 are scammish so. You can ask any queries regarding projects, grading, fests, bodies on campus, etc.


## Comments

### u/Civil-p (Score: 13)
uhh bodies?????


### u/NazgulDiedUnfairly (Score: 11)
I will ask a different question as an alumni. You are at the precipice of deciding what to do next in life. So, what are your career aspirations moving into your senior year and after?

Also, is DC++ still a thing at BITS?


### u/CharacterNorth1972 (Score: 8)
1. what will you rate your college life on scale of 10 ( you're satisfied with that)

2. How much amount of grind you put in during your college days , You feel you've worked hard in college than your jee?

3. What is biggest thing you did throughout your college journey like hosting fests or entrepreneurship etc

4. &gt;! Assuming you're guy so sex sux mila? !&lt;


### u/decent_boy191 (Score: 3)
How fast time passes!!! You once asked questions regarding admission into BITS and now you are gonna graduate next year.


### u/Zealousidea_InICE (Score: 2)
What is your body count?


### u/Boi_Wunder (Score: 1)
What do you think will help a student more during placements, dev experience or cc? What's a good CG to aim to maintain while still trying to do all these extra curriculars?


### u/RogueKnight2005 (Score: 1)
Did you find what you were passionate about in your 3 years spent so is it still something to look for? Is there something that you wished you did earlier but couldn't due to various other constraints? How is the recession in the Hyd campus (with respect to the placements)?


### u/[deleted] (Score: 1)
[removed]


### u/Total_Method_6004 (Score: 1)
Nothing much to ask fam, but how many people are there in each wing for 2nd year?


### u/Blaster_Of_Ages (Score: 1)
What laptop did you use these 3 years and did it restrict you in any way?




