# What is something you wish you would have done before coming to BITS (Any Campus) ?
## u/specdrake_28 (Score: 71) (Flair: Future BITSian)



## Comments

### u/sociopath_221_b (Score: 61)
Not discovering weed on the very first day of college life


### u/NeighborhoodGlad4020 (Score: 44)
Researched about the first year courses a little bit and about the clubs.


### u/Pkboi0017 (Score: 22)
Learnt to speak Hindi fluenty


### u/user_random_name (Score: 20)
I should have stopped thinking of the "What ifs". "What if I had picked MSc Eco in Pilani instead of a circuit branch in Goa?" "What if I took a drop and tried to get into an IIT?"  


If I could tell my 17 yo self something, it would be to stop thinking about alternate reality.


### u/CharacterNorth1972 (Score: 15)
S*X?


### u/english_notebook69 (Score: 14)
learn how to talk


### u/agent_michael_scott (Score: 7)
1. Knowing that these next 4 years are going to be the best 4 years of your life. Hustle as much as you can and have fun in the process.

2. Acads WILL f*ck you bad if you don't take it seriously and being in a non circuit branch means you need to work twice as hard.

3. Brand name of bits is complementary and not a substitute for your skills and knowledge.

- Regards a 10 yr old passout.


### u/ButterShadowxx (Score: 16)
Studied the entire first year in those 2 months break before classes... so I could chill the entire year in college


### u/Informal_Bedroom_563 (Score: 4)
Love the campus


### u/Aapke_Bacche_Ka_Baap (Score: 15)
off topic but the goa campus picture looks the best


### u/Far-Low-5174 (Score: 3)
Prepared well for jee advanced


### u/andhere_ka_baap (Score: 2)
Coding


### u/suttewala (Score: 2)
change my wing


### u/Active-Year-8562 (Score: -22)
Join iit lower branch rather than bits


### u/The_Scientist_Guy (Score: 0)
Study


### u/NeShAdope (Score: -3)
I wish i never thought about joining this college


### u/Aggravating_Extent29 (Score: -6)
Researched about the lack of facilities 💀
BITS is just hyped up
Lot of South Indian universites have better infra &amp; facilities wise


### u/[deleted] (Score: 1)
[removed]


### u/Excellent_Newt_3742 (Score: 1)
Dubai


### u/pyaarapaneer (Score: 1)
i love ur flair


### u/Informal_Bedroom_563 (Score: 0)
Got married to the rich guy and not choose studying 😫😫😫




