# Am I messing up by not doing a finance minor?
## u/Only-Mastodon-788 (Score: 14) (Flair: Career)
I'm in a non-circuital core branch and I'm (very) interested in going into IT. I don't know if I find finance interesting because I haven't done any course related to it (doing POE rn, in my 2-2). Should I do a summer term and do a finance minor as a backup? Because I know for a fact that I will not be going into core. Everybody around me is taking fundafin and DRM, even the dualites.


## Comments

### u/Mother_Scheme4034 (Score: 17)
Speaking from personal experience (5th yearite) , It's not worth doing if you do not want (notice the importance of.this word) to do it.

I took the minor and dropped it mid-way because I knew I wouldn't want to build a career in it. 
Don't chase "easy" or give into FOMO.


### u/[deleted] (Score: 5)
There are loads of courses online if you just want to gauge your interest. I would even recommend a couple of realistic movies in case you want to get a “feel” of how the fin world looks(watch Margin call, or any other 2008 documentary that talks about the technical aspects of what happened in the crisis). 

And you can always supplement your resume with a CFA Level 1(imo better than whatever a pilani fin minor teaches you). 

I do not know what tech profiles are like in India, however; a lot of Fin roles in India are MO/BO, which aren’t the meat of fin any way.


### u/Helpful-Penalty-8334 (Score: 3)
If you want to explore the finance option, do it ASAP.
In case you don't know, for 4-1 PS2, you have to do the courses by 3-1 and for 4-2 PS2 you have to do them by 3-2.
So you don't have much time to finish them all.


### u/AbjectAnalyst4584 (Score: -21)
Chasers can never be winners.


### u/WinterIndependence92 (Score: 2)
If you start doing things in college looking at other people, you will be having a very tough time. College is a place where people do a lot of different things and if you just start doing it because most people do, given you aren't interested and just want to do it because others are, you won't get anywhere.


### u/pranavpande01 (Score: 1)
It is not worth it. Most probable case, you will end up in a middle office role. POE(and B3 branch) has nothing to do with finance. Moreover, if you want a job in IT anyways, why gravitate towards finance? Everyone along with a few misguided missiles is taking finance minor currently because of the herd mentality. This was the case with IT till 21-22.




