# Dubai campus complete honest review
## u/Next_Seaweed9951 (Score: 14) (Flair: Future BITSian)
Any Alumnus or current  student  there can please tell me if that college is actually worth the money or it’s a waste of money ?( also I’m not sure if this is the right sub to ask )


## Comments

### u/Aapke_Bacche_Ka_Baap (Score: 3)
Technical Guruji can help


### u/This-Recognition699 (Score: 1)
I think I'm qualified to answer this considering I was against BPDC for the longest time, I'm a 2nd Year CS student and a student council member. Not a simple answer. And as cliched as it sounds it's what you make of it. I don't know what your expectations are but I'll try to address as many points as I can.   


1. Placements / PS Stations : Avg CS Placement at 5-6K AED per month, but the overall placement or PS Station is pretty mediocre unless you have a 9+ CGPA. Above 9 you have great companies like Emirates, Reckitt, MSD, Siemens, PWC etc. 
2. Fests and Campus Life : I'll be realistic here, campus is 14 acres. We are a small campus both in terms of size of campus and number of people. We have a total of 1.2K Students across 4 years. That's probably how much the Indian Campus intakes per year. So the number of fests and fests themselves are proportionally less "cooler". 
3. Hostel/Day Scholar : Hostel is single occupancy and that's probably the biggest perk. Mess food is mediocre at the moment. Day Scholar's have transport to and from uni. The life of a day scholar is more or less like school, you're on campus at 7:30AM and leave at 3:40PM. Campus is 25 mins away from the main city, via public transport 40mins-60mins - this is a con. I wouldn't really recommend BPDC if you're not already a resident in UAE. Please read [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/JEENEETards/comments/13iy26f/comment/jralkab/?utm_source=share&amp;utm_medium=web2x&amp;context=3). 
4. Masters Options and Academics + Scholarships : It's fairly easy to get a good CG since it's a mostly mediocre batch when it comes to academics (mediocre academically because the barrier to entry is pretty non existent at BPDC). This will help for both your first job as well as masters application. A BITS Pilani Degree with 9+ CG is definitely a good look for masters. Scholarships are pretty rewarding here, 10% for 8+, 15% for 8.5+ and 25% for 9+ CGPA. 
5. International Exposure : It's not necessarily false advertisement by BPDC. It's just that it's really what you make out of it. Don't expect anyone to spoon-feed you when it comes to this. Dubai is host to a lot of great events, make good use of it.   


What do I mean by "what you make out of it" -- all of this is two sided. You don't even have to depend on campus placements if you have family working in this industry/if you used good time networking across 4 years. Fests and Campus life are definitely relatively smaller compared to India - but honestly this is subjective if you're day scholar you'll have plenty of other ways to entertain yourself. Masters options are great and you take good use of scholarships considering academics are pretty chill here.   


PS : I remember being here 2 years ago writing about all the reasons not to join BPDC, looking back it - I'd say there's obviously two sides to it. I'll link my previous answers to [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/BITSPilani/comments/ugqwa5/comment/i9ody5p/?utm_source=share&amp;utm_medium=web2x&amp;context=3). Good luck and feel free to reach out to me if you have any more questions.




