# How to judge level of preparing
## u/KillerImposter (Score: 6) (Flair: Academics)
As someone who is in phoenix and wants to switch to IT, I want to know how do I judge my preparation for DSA?
I'm trying to solve medium-hard difficultly leetcode questions but at times I find even that to be difficult.
@seniors who did the same, please help me


## Comments

### u/Mother_Scheme4034 (Score: 8)
Get comfortable with thinking first and abstracting away the entire question maybe on paper , Then code up the smaller problems and you'll realise you've written the entire logic for the question.

Don't assume you'll be able to think in "code" at first , It never works in the beginning. 

Also , keep practicing.

To judge the prep: Give contests and upsolve.


### u/AAK_Music (Score: 5)
Give some LC contests, you should be able to solve 3/4. And maybe solve some previously asked questions from LC discussions.


### u/Informal_Bedroom_563 (Score: 3)
Keep practicing . Thats all i can suggest . Understand the concept and then impliment it . Dont mug up practice one concept 10 times


### u/WinterIndependence92 (Score: 2)
I would suggest you keep doing LC and if you can, also give contests. Don't worry about the level of preparation. Just focus on polishing the skills. Rest will follow. 

Since you are already solving medium-hard questions, I guess you know that you should look at solutions only after a certain amount of time if you get no ideas from hints and all. So follow what you are doing and keep going. 

Many people in contests or even in LC just copy solutions and submit. So I don't think you can judge yourself based on that. Hence just keep solving.




