# Realistically what does it take to score?
## u/Exciting-Ad1465 (Score: 23) (Flair: Academics)
Campus: G

Ever since joining bits I have wanted to get into a good masters programme abroad. Understandably, I have to keep up a good CG.

I worked hard my first sem, but I don't know why my efforts don't correlate to my results. I ended first sem with a 7.7. Forget a good cg I am not even getting cse as my dual.

I guess I am really struggling to find what works and what does not. I know it's subjective but if any senior/alum or a fellow firstie who is good at this could  throw some light as to how much work does it actually require. What all should I have completed before my evals and how much before. I'd love to hear what you guys think might be the problem or if someone else has faced similar issues.


## Comments

### u/WholesomeButNoMain (Score: 16)
bruh 7.7 is quite a decent cg, it was enough for dual cs in goa for my batch.

just work a little harder, a little more efficiently, and get a little lucky.

even apart from goa campus bits grading is pretty bad, and you're actually doing all right.


### u/Exciting-Ad1465 (Score: 6)
I guess the reason this bothers me so much is after jee I thought the only reason I didn't do better was because I didn't put in the work. 

In 1-1, I genuinely believe that I put in work but it didn't work.


### u/ThinPattern (Score: 3)
Take lite take ENI and chill imo


### u/Typical_Persona (Score: 2)
As a dualite 2ndie from Goa campus More than the volume of your efforts, it is the consistency of your efforts that matters in college. 
I have had courses where I would only attend lectures and revise notes semi regularly and I would do very well in them.
On the other hand I  would have courses where I slacked off a bit, thought I had put in exponentially more efforts than usual and still end up with a mediocre grade.
I feel a lot of the questions asked in the exams are covered in tutorials and lectures, so if you are regular in class, getting an 8+ is cakewalk.


### u/Comprehensive_Heat37 (Score: 1)
What are you going on about? 7.7 is a great score that probably puts you in top 30 percentile.

&amp;#x200B;

BITS is all about relative grading so you're graded based on your performance compared to your peers, and most importantly here your peers here are just as academically smart as you.

This isn't like school where you get 9+ GPA just for doing the bare minimum. If your peers studied harder than you then you lose, even if you were decent at the course.

Also, only about 20% of dualites get CSE as a dual (atleast in Pilani, Goa might be better). "*Forget a good cg I am not even getting cse as my dual.*" makes you sound entitled, like you were expecting to waltz your way into CS without even trying. On the contrary, getting CS is an achieved through pure hard work.

&amp;#x200B;

PS: Don't rest on your laurels, second sem grading is difficult and your peers who didn't perform last sem will have woken up to a harsher reality. Expect much tougher competition.


### u/micketic (Score: 0)
LOL

"What does it take to score" could mean many things. I thought about scoring something else only


### u/Axywil (Score: 1)
!Remind Me 12 hours


### u/Suspicious_Spray_923 (Score: 1)
Bro don’t worry itna I am also a dual secondie 
I got 7.5 in sem 1 then I got around 8.5 in the next 2 sems just enjoy what your doing and don’t keep backlog now you probably have a general idea of what to do and what not to do. Don’t stress take lite. Ho jayega. Enjoy the grind. Trust me I was in a similar position the stress is not worth it. Milna hoga toh aa jayega work hard. It’s the journey brother.




