# 1st Year at BITS (Dualite)
## u/Tan3x (Score: 8) (Flair: Future BITSian)
I want to ask about how is the 1st year at BITS academically. What are the courses like and also if someone takes dual degree, how hard is it to get CS? Any help would be appreciated.


## Comments

### u/Pkboi0017 (Score: 14)
Not hard, not tough just read everyday


### u/Spirited-Muscle188 (Score: 10)
&gt; how is the 1st year at BITS academically.

The intrinsic difficulty is more or less the same across most engineering colleges, but the fact that there are 400-500 dualites out of the 1000-1200 people makes your life a bit more challenging. 

Being a 2nd yearite now, it's way easier than the JEE journey and the roadmap ahead is pretty predictable. The difficulty arises when some people falter and lose interest in acads after a while on campus, cause there are way more interesting things to do rather than study in your room. The ones who maintain their energy levels and keep their eyes on the prize till the 2nd sem compre, end up getting the CG enough for CS.

Getting 8-8.5 mostly entails consistent class-going and studying well for evals.

Getting 9.5+ is what is genuinely difficult and requires crazy efforts cause at that level, you're directly head-to-head with people who have cleared KVPY, have an under 2k-3k rank in JEE Adv, and also study consistently.


### u/Otherwise-Alps-3000 (Score: 6)
You guys will also have mnc, just saying.


### u/Grouchy-Silver-6795 (Score: 2)
As a 1st year dualite myself, it can get very competitive but it's fun at the same time. You have subjects like Physics, Chemistry, Biology, EG, Programming, Thermodynamics, EEE and Workshop. Getting CS is not that hard if you study consistently and maintain a good enough CGPA, but since I'm still in my first year, I'm yet to know if it's hard or not lol


### u/HentaiAccount_6 (Score: -4)
VERY easy to get cs, you need like 8.2 8.3 cg max and courses are simple same as the other first years


### u/webdevbro69420 (Score: 1)
If you are in bits goa then be prepared for some ruthless competition here...grading is fcked but if you study hard enough you can get cs


### u/Aapke_Bacche_Ka_Baap (Score: 1)
first year courses are continuation of your jee syllabus, except the first year CS course, biology course and biology lab. Getting cs was easy for me, I used to go to classes and studied for midsems and compre from a week before, ended up with close to 9cg at end of first year


### u/mfdoom08 (Score: 1)
If you have what it takes to get up in 5 degree weather (in Pilani) at 8 and go the lecture then it’s not hard.




