# Are dual degrees im BITS worth it?
## u/Technicalpack7 (Score: 0) (Flair: Future BITSian)
How do the dual degrees work in bits? Like what master and bachelor options do we have??


## Comments

### u/Low_Turnover_5064 (Score: 4)
Give me a few days im really busy i can put up all points of advantage and disadvantage of taking a dual degree to help all of you decide.


### u/[deleted] (Score: 5)
[removed]


### u/StrawberryShaker2005 (Score: 3)
Coming from an eco dualite....

I had a rank of 13.3k (98.86%ile) in JEE mains 2023

I was getting borderline ENI or mech last year at BITS Pilani, Pilani campus. But I believe that choosing eco was a pretty wise decision for me as getting CG is not that hard tbh. I got 8.5x CG in the first sem which kinda assures CS. So, it turned out to be a huge W for me. I know countless other examples like this. But mind you, you gotta be serious and not fuck up your first year. 

And anyways, ECE guys are also allowed for 90% of the companies.

In my case, I was kinda fascinated by eco and finance so I took it out of interest as well. (I had put MSc. Eco above EEE in my choice filling 😛)

Also, with the MCN and merit scholarships you can pretty much complete your degree for a very small amount IMO.


### u/Icy-Clue-913 (Score: 3)
Worth if you fuck up JEE
 (It is the only option available)


### u/Me_realbad (Score: -2)
Eco is definitely worth it, but honestly taking phoenix even eie is better than taking eco as even if you get cs with eco God knows what will be the scene of IT with the advent of ai (5 years is a long time for Ai to become really really good at coding)


### u/[deleted] (Score: 1)
[removed]


### u/workingzombie1511 (Score: 1)
bhai drop se better h ( Naa milne ka dard mujhe pta h)


### u/Abduz_Samee (Score: 1)
Depends on what other things you are getting elsewhere...




