---
layout: post
title: Striker
date: 2018-07-05 22:23:00.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories:
- WITW
tags: []
meta:
  _wp_old_date: '2019-09-19'
  timeline_notification: '1568912073'
  _publicize_job_id: '35458966699'
author:
  login: jcbitshyd
  email: journal@hyderabad.bits-pilani.ac.in
  display_name: Journal Club, BPHC
  first_name: ''
  last_name: ''
permalink: "/2018/07/05/striker/"
---
<p><!-- wp:heading --></p>
<h2>What sparked your interest in Frisbee?</h2>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>I got introduced to Frisbee in a rather peculiar way. It all began in<br />
 my first year when a wing-mate of mine, had a disc that he got for<br />
free. We used to go to the Krishna Bhawan QT to make random throws.<br />
Eventually, a lot of my wing-mates joined, and we decided to make it<br />
more competitive. One fine day, we crudely designed our own few rules<br />
and created a game, in which, to score you had to hit the drain pipe on<br />
the opponent’s side. We played this passionately for more than a year!<br />
In Ram Bhawan and through to Gandhi Bhawan, until we were in our second<br />
year. Sometime later, we discovered that MKBHD, a famous Tech-review<br />
YouTuber, plays a game called Ultimate and that it is related to<br />
Frisbee. It had almost exactly the same rules that we independently had<br />
created!. I read about the game and I was in love!</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading --></p>
<h2><a href="https://github.com/journal-club/wiki-data/blob/master/news/witw/1-3/striker.md#what-is-your-opinion-about-the-current-frisbee-culture-on-campus"></a></h2>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading --></p>
<h2>What is your opinion about the current Frisbee culture on campus?</h2>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Ultimate culture on campus is on a rigorous and steep growth curve.<br />
The first team I formed, which was only last semester, is performing<br />
well and we are almost at par with most of the teams from Hyderabad<br />
Ultimate Community, with just 4-5 months of practice. We have loads of<br />
new recruits, from first year especially, and their enthusiasm inspires<br />
me.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading --></p>
<h2><a href="https://github.com/journal-club/wiki-data/blob/master/news/witw/1-3/striker.md#how-do-you-think-we-can-improve-the-frisbee-culture-on-campus"></a></h2>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading --></p>
<h2>How do you think we can improve the Frisbee culture on campus?</h2>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>First, we need to recognize this as an official sport so we can get a<br />
 budget allocated per semester from the SAC funds or from the SUC. Discs<br />
 get worn out very quickly and most of the time we are playing with<br />
scratched and frayed discs. We need support from campus to have a<br />
regular supply of discs. This is probably over-reaching, but we’d love<br />
to have a grass field to practice on during proper evening hours, rather<br />
 than late at night. Second, we need to increase awareness of the sport<br />
amongst the girls. Once we have enough female players, we can form an<br />
official team and participate in tournaments outside. Third, we need to<br />
host more Ultimate Leagues and Ultimate HAT tournaments.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading --></p>
<h2><a href="https://github.com/journal-club/wiki-data/blob/master/news/witw/1-3/striker.md#what-do-you-expect-from-students-who-give-frisbee-inductions"></a></h2>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading --></p>
<h2>What do you expect from students who give Frisbee inductions?</h2>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Enthusiasm only.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading --></p>
<h2><a href="https://github.com/journal-club/wiki-data/blob/master/news/witw/1-3/striker.md#why-wasnt-ufc-a-part-of-arena"></a></h2>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading --></p>
<h2>Why wasn’t UFC a part of ARENA?</h2>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Ultimate wasn’t a part of Arena because we did not have a team by<br />
then. We had more than enough boys, but we had only two girls. We<br />
couldn’t get it up to the 3:4 ratio required. We needed more female<br />
representation to actually invite teams over and conduct matches. We<br />
have more girls turning over for practices and we can soon build a team.<br />
 We will be conducting Hyderabad Ultimate League, hopefully on our<br />
campus grounds this semester. So, although Arena was a major miss,<br />
things are advancing towards a bright future.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading --></p>
<h2><a href="https://github.com/journal-club/wiki-data/blob/master/news/witw/1-3/striker.md#what-struggles-did-you-face-when-you-first-had-to-establish-ufc-as-a-sport-in-campus"></a></h2>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading --></p>
<h2>What struggles did you face when you first had to establish UFC as a sport in campus?</h2>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>We started with very few players and even fewer remained after a<br />
week. I was learning with the players, so I wasn’t the best trainer the<br />
kids could get, but we had to do with that. I did not have a place to<br />
practice with my recruits. We had a lot of pain playing at very weird<br />
places. We started taking throws at Kabaddi ground. Then we shifted to<br />
the ruins behind the SAC and Medical Center, in the depression below.<br />
The ground was so bad we had to shift to A-Block academic lawns. This is<br />
 where the proper foundation of Ultimate was laid. The field was bad. It<br />
 had a slope upwards. But it had to do. Ultimately, we shifted to the<br />
Hockey field, where we train after dinner every night so that we don’t<br />
intrude into football practices in the evening. With conditions like<br />
this, maintaining the enthusiasm of players was difficult - with no<br />
official recognition and bleak chances of forming a team, we were just<br />
exploring the sport at our own pace. It’s only the hard work of the team<br />
 that brought Ultimate to where it is today.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading --></p>
<h2><a href="https://github.com/journal-club/wiki-data/blob/master/news/witw/1-3/striker.md#is-there-anything-else-youd-like-to-share"></a></h2>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:heading --></p>
<h2>Is there anything else you’d like to share?</h2>
<p><!-- /wp:heading --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>I am happy that Ultimate has finally started receiving recognition.<br />
It gives worth to all our efforts that we put in each day for over a<br />
year now, and me personally for almost 3 years. We have a long way to go<br />
 from here. We have to win over teams from across India. With my amazing<br />
 team and their enthusiasm and hard work, I have to hustle and guide<br />
BPHC Ultimate towards greatness. I have a vision, and I shall achieve it<br />
 with my team by my side.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><em>Interviewed by Venkatesh Jaya &amp; Vamsi Nallappareddy</em></p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
