---
layout: post
title: From the Desk of a Sports Enthusiast
date: 2020-02-09 19:00:00.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories:
- Sports
tags:
- Cricket
meta:
  timeline_notification: '1581255895'
  _publicize_job_id: '40491739798'
  _wp_old_slug: '837'
  _thumbnail_id: '851'
author:
  login: jcbitshyd
  email: journal@hyderabad.bits-pilani.ac.in
  display_name: Journal Club, BPHC
  first_name: ''
  last_name: ''
permalink: "/2020/02/09/odi-ind-nz/"
---
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>With yesterday’s game done and dusted, it’s time to roll up our sleeves and analyse where India went wrong against the Black Caps. It was a crucial match for India as it looked to bounce back after the disappointment of the first ODI. Although India came close to winning the match, all thanks to the heroics of Jadeja and Saini, there are some serious gaps in this team that Captain Kohli must fix quickly.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><strong><em>Let’s look at the positives first.&nbsp;</em></strong></p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Yuzvendra Chahal is turning out to be a great white-ball specialist for the Indian team. He has made his impact when it mattered the most. From his ability to flight the ball to pushing a slider in to bamboozle the batsmen, he has got all the skills up his arsenal.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>India found themselves in dire need of partnership in this game after a poor and sluggish start by the top order. India’s middle-order lineup is widely considered to wobbly and often struggles to take the limelight away from its star-studded opening lineup. But today, a crucial partnership by Saini and Jadeja, brought India close to levelling the series. Navdeep Saini took the responsibility of stringing together an excellent partnership in favour of visitors.&nbsp;</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Ravindra Jadeja has once again shown the cricketing fraternity why Kohli considers him an invaluable asset. His batting and bowling skills have come a long way since the Champions Trophy 2017. Today it was his batting that kept Team India in the mix to level the series till the penultimate over.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Iyer has again proved that he can be given the responsibility to bat at number four. Often considered the most controversial position in Indian lineup, it seems that Iyer has made it his own. The only thing he needs to take care of is not throwing it away when he’s set against the run of play.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><em><strong>Let’s take the flip side of the coin.</strong></em></p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>India hasn’t been doing well in the fielding department as they would have liked. There has been a downfall in fielding standards off late. Although the one off-game is fine but repeating it match overmatch does not align with the standard of fitness and work ethic set under Kohli’s captaincy.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>India should also ask and reconsider what they are looking for, A bowler who can bat? Or a batsman who can bowl? Either of the cases, Shardul Thakur doesn’t fit in starting eleven. His inclusion in the team begs serious questioning considering India now have a good allrounder in Jadeja and a solid lower-order batsman in Saini.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>Team management has to also think about Jadhav’s role in the team. Is he a finisher? Is he an anchor to your innings? Is he someone who gives you 3-4 overs in between? And should you back him? Jadhav has had his share of opportunities, and he has been decent in doing the job of getting 15 off 9, but age not by his side creates complications to his place in the 11. Manish Pandey is loving the number 6 spot and doing so well. He brings energy in the field and he’s lightning fast in the outfield I feel that’s what gives him an edge over Jadhav.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>India’s main problem in the ODI’s off late has been the absence of a death bowler who can support Bumrah. They have struggled to replace Bhuvneshwar Kumar after his injury. While Bumrah saves the runs from one end, the other end is leaking runs, which puts pressure on Bumrah to perform even more in the death overs.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><strong><em>Final thoughts</em></strong></p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
<p><!-- wp:paragraph --></p>
<p>The openers should take the responsibility to make sure the team gets a good start because you can’t rely on Virat Kohli to win you games every time. It is their responsibility to make sure that they perform to the expectations that they came within the national squad.</p>
<p><!-- /wp:paragraph --></p>
