
Bon Voyage is a farewell event for seniors in their third year that's
 funded by their immediate juniors. This year's Bon Voyage is to be held
 on the 22nd of April. It’s an event that has been considered a
tradition of sorts. A tradition that may happen to involve a bit of
unfair transactions. The Recreational Activities Forum, also called RAF,
 organizes Bon Voyage every year. Apart from this, they’re also the ones
 who screen the weekly movies in the auditorium and organize Teachers’
Day Celebrations. They’re not affiliated with the SU and do not involve
themselves with the business of fests.


How does RAF get the money it needs to pull off an event like this?
At the moment, RAF has no external sponsors and is entirely funded by
students. For the current edition of Bon Voyage, RAF is deducting ₹420
from the 2016 batch, summing up to a total of ₹2,72,160. An additional
amount of ₹30,000, the money that was carried over from Teacher’s Day is
 also being used1. Every year RAF collects significantly more
 money during Teachers' Day than they need and this ‘surplus’ is
diverted to balance the BV budget. How can we justify taking such a
large amount from students without telling them what they’re paying for?


The deductions for Bon Voyage have increased by 30% each year from ₹250 in 2016 to ₹325 in 2017 and finally ₹420 this year2.
 Following this trend, for the 2018 Batch Bon Voyage, they will have to
pay slightly less than ₹1000. For comparison, ATMOS 2017’s GBM was held
to convince the General Body for a deduction of ₹200 rupees for three
days of one of the best fests in the country. Should we really be spending twice the amount for what is effectively a single awards ceremony and dinner?


The constitution3 dictates the necessity of a GBM for any deductions proposed to the general body.


The lack of any official consent of a majority for compulsory
deductions makes the current proceedings wrong, both morally and
legally.


We reached out to RAF to listen to their side of the story. According
 to them, the increased price this year was due to the decreased number
of students in the 2016 batch, who would be footing the bill for this
Bon Voyage. However, they cannot justify the increase in deductions over
 the last two years, as it was organized by a different RAF. RAF claims
that there have never been any issues since its inception, nor was there
 ever a GBM. They also validate the deduction by saying “the paying
batch would be repaid through the next batch and so forth”. The
deductions were approved by the Associate Dean SWD, the CRC and the
President4.


In the process of celebrating our seniors, have we really made sure
that everyone is comfortable with paying such a significant amount? Why
is it acceptable for the administration to deduct my money without my
consent? This is the third un-consented5 deduction from students in the past few months. Does the silence of the EC, CRC and SUC indicate that all of this is legal?


Is this a sign of apathy and lenience towards deductions for events
on campus without the approval of the payers? Should this continue?





Footnotes:


1 The total deduction for Teacher’s Day was ₹71,000 By
tradition, it’s something that has been funded by freshers. Roughly Rs.
30,000 of this amount was left over after the celebration, and this was
carried over to fund other activities. With almost half of this being
sent towards Bon Voyage, is this fair to the freshers some of whom were
allegedly not entirely comfortable with contributing. Why deduct this
much if it’s unnecessary?


2 A breakdown of how the money will be spent, according to a RAF member: 







3 SECTION XXII: REFERENDUMS


4 The exact procedure by which the deductions were approved is still unclear.


5 The other two un-consented deductions were for the two
moonlight dinners organised by the messes. Also, the deductions for
Pearl and ATMOS of of ₹1000 and ₹200 respectively, while passed through
GBMs and is legal, might still be morally un-consented as money is still
 being deducted from people who voted against/didn't agree to the
motion.


Article by Shanmukh Padmanabhuni and Rohit Dwivedula


Date: 17/April/2018

