
BITS Pilani Hyderabad Campus, one of the most prestigious colleges in
 India, keeps proving its distinction from time to time. While getting
better academically, soaring to greater heights of success each year, it
 also brings out its most through its fests - Pearl and ATMOS.


ATMOS - The Assimilation of Technically Motivated Souls - has been a
display of the college’s thriving technical culture since its
inauguration in 2012.


The very first ATMOS in 2012 was indeed a massive crowd-puller. It
spanned for three days and saw huge participation from all over the
country. Remarkable events such as Robotics and Circuit Design
competition were held and  Headliner events included workshops from
notable companies like Wikipedia and DreamWorks Animation. Ethical
Hacking and Android app development workshops provided an insight into
the modern technical trends.


The National General Quiz, Enigma 2013 was the highlight of ATMOS,
2013. The technical associations organised several competitions. Cannon
Wars by the Association of Chemical Engineers, Open Outcry by the
Economics Association, Junkyard Wars by the Mechanical Engineering
Association garnered several enthusiastic participants. The Computer
Science Association’s events like Algomaniac, Brainstorm and Codename
were also very popular. There was a Raspberry Pi workshop for robotics
enthusiasts and also a Windows 8 Appfest, a coding marathon/heaven for
web developers.


The third edition of ATMOS in 2014 marked a slight deviation in its
theme and organisation to accommodate more events on management and
finance to completely justify its description as a techno-management
festival. New events like Open Outcry, Managers Dilemma and Trading
Brains were met with widespread approval. Usual technical events such as
 RoboWars, CircuitArt and Mini GP continued to engage participants and
Enigma 2014 was again a huge success on a national scale with over 250
teams participating in the regionals. A footfall of 5000 was registered
over the course of the three days of the fest.


2015 saw the most popular edition of ATMOS ever with a footfall of a
whopping 8000 during the three days from 9-11th October. The
inauguration was especially well regarded with mind-blowing performances
 by the Dance and the Dramatics Clubs. Sponsorship saw an all time high
with official sponsors including Coca Cola, Red Bull, Uninor and the
likes. Guests of honour who turned up for the fest included Dr. G.
Satheesh Reddy, technical advisor to the Defence Minister and Director
of DRDO and Justice Markandey Katju, former Chief Justice of India and
Chairman of the Press Council of India. Suit Up, an event organised by
the CEL was one of the most popular events that year. Enigma 2015 finals
 saw renowned quizzer Vikram Joshi take up the role of quizmaster with
the 8 winners of the regional rounds taking part. A grand total of 50k
as prize money was up for grabs during Enigma.


The most recent ATMOS, 2016 had a rather interesting theme -
Illusions, Paradoxes and Perspectives. Much like the fascinating theme,
the inaugural performances by the Music, the Dance, Shades and the
Dramatics Clubs were stupefying! DJ Paroma enlivened and brewed up the
whole campus with her indelible proShow. The BITSMUN 2016, which was
conducted along with ATMOS proved to be a grand success as well. Some of
 the significant workshops included PyBITS, RC Aircraft, Aerial
Photography, IoT and Fastrack Automobile. PyBITS being one of the
highlighted events aimed at promoting the usage of Python among the
attendees, and at introducing them to new ideas as to the applicability
of Python in various programming domains. In addition to already popular
 headliner events, the major competitive events encompassed Code Jam,
Reverse Coding and Algomaniac. Sponsors like Cyient, Prodigy, SBI, Heico
 and KTM funded the fest making it a grand success. A noteworthy guest
oration was delivered by Dr. Devi Shetty, cardiosurgeon, chairman and
founder of Narayana Health, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri laurel.

