
With the start of the new year and the largest batch intake till
date, the campus has been abuzz with various events, especially sports,
to cater to the interests of the students present. The first few weeks
were busy with players and enthusiasts giving inductions for the various
 sports teams on campus. A football match was played against Mahindra
Ecole Centrale here there was a tie initially, but BPHC eventually lost
in the shootout 1-3. Basketball matches were played against Muffakam Jha
 Eagles, against whom BPHC won 80-37. We also played with Mahindra Ecole
 Centrale and the team won comfortably. In the SNIST Sports Fest, our
basketball team reached the semi-finals but lost to VNR 28-38. There
have been two inter-college cricket matches against Bhavan’s Vivekananda
 College, of which we won the first match by 5 wickets but lost the
second by 1 wicket.


Coming back to our own campus, there have been 2 intra-college
cricket matches between the 2 teams, BPHC A and BPHC B led by Ishant
Singh and Kritanshu Singh respectively. The first match was won by BPHC B
 by 2 wickets and the second one by BPHC A by 25 runs. The sports
culture on campus is going to be promoted greatly by ‘Blitzkreig’, an
oncampus IPL-like event where players are auctioned off to the various
‘buyers’/captains leading to various matches being played amongst
themselves. The first auction was for the most loved sport of India:
cricket; with the four team captains facing off to bid for the best
players on campus. It was hosted by Gargic Mishra and Yashvardhan
Shukla. Each captain was given an amount of 40 lakhs to use to build
their own dream team.


The auction was for cricket players and enthusiasts of every year.
The bids went up to 15 lakhs with the highest one being 15.5 lakhs for
star player Harsh Mundra, given by Kritanshu Singh. The captains readily
 bid for several first years as well, with the highest bid for a first
year going up to 6 lakhs.


This edition of Blitzkrieg is no doubt going to be full of excitement and raw talent, with teams battling out for victory!

